reposetup
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8
%!postproc(man): "^(\.TH.*) 1 "  "\1 8 "

= NAME =

reposetup - a tool that helps choose repository mirrors for Salix


= SYNOPSIS =

**reposetup** [//OPTIONS//]


= DESCRIPTION =

**reposetup** is an interactive tool that helps with easy and fast
switching between available repository mirrors.

The files that are being edited by **reposetup** are
__/etc/slapt-get/slapt-getrc__ and __/etc/slapt-get/slapt-srcrc__. The
only configuration lines in those files that are affected are the
__SOURCE__ lines. All other lines, for example the __WORKINGDIR__ and
__EXCLUDE__ lines in __slapt-getrc__ or the __BUILDDIR__ and __PKGEXT__
lines in __slapt-srcrc__, are not affected. Also, any edits in the
commented lines that might have been done, will be removed.


= OPTIONS =

: **-m** //mirror//
Specify a repository mirror from the command line and do not display an
interactive dialog with a list of repository mirrors. ''http://'',
''ftp://'' and ''file://'' locations are allowed. Other than that, no
validity check is performed on the mirror location that is specified,
so make sure you are specifying a correct one.

: **-l**
By default, reposetup will try to refresh the local mirrors list,
present in the __/usr/share/salixtools/reposetup/repomirrors__ file with
a more up to date one. This switch disables that behaviour and just uses
the local list of mirrors.

: **-n**
When used in interactive mode, it prevents **reposetup** from showing
a dialog asking if the package caches should be updated after selecting
a mirror. Only the configuration files are altered. If used together
with the **-m** option, it prevents **reposetup** from updating the
package caches.

: **-p**
Only print the currently selected mirror and exit, without making any
changes. If no mirror has been set, exit code 1 is returned..


= GENERAL OPTIONS =

: **-h**
Prints a usage message briefly summarizing all command-line options and
exits.


= AUTHORS =

**reposetup** was written by George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>


= SEE ALSO =

**spi**(8), **slapt-get**(8), **slapt-src**(8)
