netsetup
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8
%!postproc(man): "^(\.TH.*) 1 "  "\1 8 "

= NAME =

netsetup - a script to do basic network configuration


= SYNOPSIS =

**netsetup**


= DESCRIPTION =

**netsetup** is a tool that helps setup basic network configuration. It
uses __dialog__ to present the user with a series of questions to
answer. The program will then edit the rc.inet1.conf file.

You will also need kernel support for your network card. The **netsetup**
program can probe your system for a network card and enable it. Or you
can edit ///etc/rc.d/rc.modules// and select your card.

You can, of course, edit the network configuration files by hand. They
are ///etc/rc.d/rc.inet1.conf// and ///etc/rc.d/rc.inet2//, which are
discussed in greater detail below.

**netsetup** is as a fork of the stock Slackware script **netconfig**.
In fact the two are identical, except for the fact that **netsetup** is
internationalized.

**netsetup** is part of the **salixtools** package.


= DHCP SUPPORT =

**netsetup** will ask if you want to use DHCP for your network setup. Or
you can edit //rc.inet1.conf// to run **/sbin/dhcpd** for you. Be sure
that you have kernel support for your network card enabled
(**netsetup** can do this for you).


= rc.inet1 =

**rc.inet1**'s role is simple: it configures your networking devices and
sets up your routing. Essentially, **rc.inet1** is the file that gives
you a network in the first place, reading config options from its config
file: //rc.inet1.conf//.

This configuration file is pretty simple, it supports up to 3 different
networking devices. For each device there's a section like the
following:

```
# Config information for eth0:
IPADDR[0]=""
NETMASK[0]=""
USE_DHCP[0]=""
DHCP_HOSTNAME[0]=""
```

Your IP address (//IPADDR//) you can get from your network
administrator.  The netmask is almost always going to be
//255.255.255.0//, unless your machine is at the top of the subnet (in
which case you probably don't need this page). //USE_DHCP// and
//DHCP_HOSTNAME// are used if you lease an IP address from a DHCP
server.

At the bottom of rc.inet1.conf you'll find:

```
# Default gateway IP address:
GATEWAY=""

# Change this to "yes" for debugging output to stdout. Unfortunately,
# /sbin/hotplug seems to disable stdout so you'll only see debugging
# output
# when rc.inet1 is called directly.
DEBUG_ETH_UP="no"
```

//GATEWAY// is usually going to be the first machine on your subnet
(though it may not be... ask your network admin.). //DEBUG_ETH_UP// can
be used for debugging purposes.


= rc.inet2 =


**rc.inet1** gives you a network; **rc.inet2** finishes the job of network
configuration by running stuff on that network. Any services or daemons
that use the network should be started from this file. Most of the rc
scripts in charge of starting daemons like inetd, sshd, bind, nfs, etc
get called from **rc.inet2**.

Other daemons (httpd, mysql, samba, etc) get called by init scripts run
from **rc.M**, so that's where you may want to look at, if you need to
disable them (or see how it works ;-) ).


= AUTHORS =

**netsetup** is maintained by George Vlahavas
<vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>. **netsetup** is a fork of **netconfig**.
**netconfig** is mostly written by Patrick Volkerding
<volkerdi~at~slackware~dot~com>.
