clocksetup
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8

= NAME =

clocksetup - a tool that helps set the system's date and time

= SYNOPSIS =

**clocksetup** [//OPTIONS//]

= DESCRIPTION =

**clocksetup** is a tool that helps set the system's date and time.
It __dialog__ to present the user with a menu which can be
used to:
- Set the system time
- Set the system date
- Set the timezone
- Select if the hardware clock in your computer is set to local time or UTC
- Synchronize system date/time using Network Time Protocol (NTP)


**clocksetup** is part of the **salixtools** package.

= OPTIONS =

**-c**,
%comment
if specified, clocksetup will only display a dialog for configuring the
hardware clock. You can select if your hardware clock is using UTC/GMT
or is set to local time. Most home or business computer hardware clocks
are set to using local time, while the hardware clock in most web
servers is probably set to using UTC time.

**-d**,
%comment
if specified, clocksetup will only display a dialog for setting the
date.

**-t**,
%comment
if specified, clocksetup will only display a dialog for setting the
time.

**-z**,
%comment
if specified, clocksetup will only display a dialog for setting the
timezone instead of the main menu.

**-h**,
%comment
shows a brief help message.

= AUTHORS =

- George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>

- Pierrick Le Brun <akuna~at~free~dot~fr>

- Thorsten Muehlfelder <thenktor~at~gmx~dot~de>


**clocksetup** started as a fork of **clockconfig**, which was originally written by:

- Jean-Philippe Guillemin <jp.guillemin~at~free~dot~fr>

