usersetup
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8

= NAME =

usersetup - a tool that helps with user and group management

= SYNOPSIS =

**usersetup**

= DESCRIPTION =

**usersetup** is a tool that helps with the management of user accounts
and group memberships. It uses an Xdialog or dialog interface to present
the user with a menu that includes the following options:

**Create a new account**,
%comment
which allows the creation of a new user account. Only information that
needs to be provided is the username and password.

**Create a new account (advanced mode)**,
%comment
which allows the creation of a new user account, providing full
information for that user, like full username, office, home and work phone
numbers, home directory path, shell to be used, group membership and
account expiry date.

**Modify account properties**,
%comment
which can be used to modify account properties for existing users.

**Change account password**,
%comment
which allows changing the password for a user account with a new one.

**Delete accounts**,
%comment
which can be used to delete user accounts from the system. Home
directories for those users and all the files they include will still
remain.

**List groups and memberships**,
%comment
which provides a list of all groups present in the system. By selecting
a group, a list of users that are part of that group is displayed.

**Create a new group**,
%comment
which can be used to create a new group.

**Change group name**,
%comment
which allows changing the name of a group already present in the system.

**Delete groups**,
%comment
which allows the deletion of a group from the system.


= AUTHORS =

- George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>
- Pierrick Le Brun <akuna~at~free~dot~fr>


**usersetup** started as a fork of **userconfig**, originally written
by:

- Jean-Philippe Guillemin <jp.guillemin~at~free~dot~fr>
- Teran McKinney <sega01~at~go-beyond~dot~org>


= SEE ALSO =

**chfn**(1), **chsh**(1), **groupadd**(8), **groupdel**(8), **groups**(1), 
**passwd**(1), **useradd**(8), **userdel**(8), **usermod**(8)
