keyboardsetup
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8
%!postproc(man): "^(\.TH.*) 1 "  "\1 8 "

= NAME =

keyboardsetup - a tool that helps set keyboard options


= SYNOPSIS =

**keyboardsetup** [//OPTIONS//]


= DESCRIPTION =

**keyboardsetup** is a tool that helps set the keyboard map to be used for
the linux terminal. If it is run with no parameters specified, 
it provides an interactive menu, using
__dialog__, with a list of all valid keyboard maps for the user
to choose. It can also set the default state of the numlock key after
booting. User preferences are applied on the fly and appropriate changes
are done to system configuration files so they become the system
default.

**keyboardsetup** can also be used to set IBus to be enabled or disabled, if
IBus or is installed. IBus is an input platforms for Chinese, Japanese, Korean
and many other languages when using a graphical environment. IBus settings
require the system to be restarted to take effect, or at the very least for the
user to logout of his X session, log back in again and start IBus manually.

**keyboardsetup** also has a non-interactive mode that can be
invoked by providing keyboard map, numlock state and/or IBus state
parameters from the command line.

**keyboardsetup** is part of the **salixtools** package.


= OPTIONS =

: **-k** //keymap//
Use it to set the desired keyboard map. //keymap// specifies the
keyboard map to be used. Look in the ///usr/share/salixtools/keymaps//
file to view a list of valid keyboard maps and their corresponding
Xorg layouts and options.

: **-n** //numlockstate//
Use it to specify the default numlock state for the linux terminal and
Xorg. //numlockstate// can be set to either **on** or **off**.

: **-i** //ibusstate//
Use it to specify the default state of IBus, if IBus is installed.
//ibusstate// can be set to either **on** or **off**. It will have no
effect if IBus is not installed.

: **-z**
Use this to not apply settings on the fly. Changes will still be made in
all relevant settings files, so they will be applied next time the
system is started.


= AUTHORS =

- George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>
- Pierrick Le Brun <akuna~at~free~dot~fr>


**keyboardsetup** started as a fork of **keyboardconfig**, which was originally
written by:

- Jean-Philippe Guillemin <jp.guillemin~at~free~dot~fr>


= SEE ALSO =

**loadkeys**(1), **setxkbmap**(1)
